Hello, I'm Taha Kass-Hout, Director,
Machine Learning and Chief
Medical Officer at Amazon Web
Services, where I lead our
Health AI strategy and
initiatives, including Amazon
Comprehend Medical and Amazon
HealthLake. I'm also working
with teams at Amazon responsible
for developing the science,
technology and scale for our
COVID-19 lab testing, to protect
our associates and effectively
address this pandemic.
Previously, I served two terms
under President Obama, including
Chief Health Informatics Officer
at the Food and Drug
Administration FDA.
I hold a Doctor of Medicine and
a Master of Science and
Biostatistics from University of
Texas and had my clinical
training at Harvard's Beth
Israel Deaconess Medical
Centre. And I am excited to
introduce Dr. Dave Johnson, VP
of Informatics, Data Science
and AI at Moderna, who will be
joining us today. Dave? Thanks Taha,
pleasure to be here. At Moderna
I'm responsible for our digital
landscape supporting research
and development. My job is to
help our R&D
teams accelerate innovative
new medicines to the clinic by
leveraging digital technology in
AI. I also manage a number of
our technical teams, including
software engineering, data
analytics, and data science,
which are deployed across the
enterprise. I've worked at
Moderna for the last seven
years, supporting the company as
it grew from a small pre-clinical
startup to the commercial
biotech that it is today. Prior
to Moderna, I worked for many
years as a software engineering
and data consultant, including
several years of research
informatics consulting at large
pharmas. I also hold a PhD in
information physics from SUNY
Albany. And I'm thrilled to be
here today to talk about this.
Thank you, Dave. We're living in
a global pandemic, that, in its
lethality, touching
every corner around the globe. We've
witnessed millions of infections,
and hundreds of thousands of deaths.
Thereâ€™s so much here to be done, to end
the suffering with advanced,
safe, and effective vaccines,
that are affordable and
available at mass use. But
also to leverage this learning,
to tackle other diseases. Since
its inception in 2010 Moderna
developed its entire drug
discovery and manufacturing
processes,
that are digital or infused by
artificial intelligence. Moderna's
visionary belief in
the power of cloud and AI has
fuelled much of its success rate
in designing new drugs for
vaccines and therapies in its
pipeline and time to market,
along with groundbreaking
science. Moderna relies on an
innovative platform approach to
messenger RNA (or mRNA) science,
which it uses for its leading
COVID-19 vaccine reaching high
efficacy levels. In a matter of
few days, Moderna was able to
respond to the challenge of
developing a vaccine in
collaboration with the National
Institutes of Health. Though a
promising methodology, so far no
mRNA drug has ever made it to
the market before, making Moderna,
the biotech company born in AWS,
a driving force and pushing the
boundaries of basic and applied
science. And while
the SARS-CoV-2 virus is only a
single protein, say compared to
other far more complicated or
sophisticated viruses like HIV
or CMV. Still the fascinating
part is, the vaccine approved by
the FDA in December of last
year is the same chemical
structure that Moderna printed
earlier in January. This brings
hope not only to future
vaccines, but also to targeted
therapies for other diseases. So
Dave, what happened in those
early days after January 11? And
how were you able to move so
quickly? It's a great question, Taha.
Well Moderna started working
on our vaccine for the novel
coronavirus the moment its
sequence was released by
the Chinese authorities. And
just a few days later, we had
finalised the sequence for our
mRNA vaccine in partnership with
the NIH and started manufacture
right away. The first clinical
grade batch was released on
February 7th and the first
subject was dosed on March 16th,
only 65 days from sequence to
dosing. And this is truly
unprecedented for a process that
normally takes many, many years.
And then over the next eight
months, as you said, we ran the
clinical studies to prove the
effectiveness of this vaccine.
Now Moderna was able to reach
these milestones so quickly,
really due to the programmable
nature of mRNA medicines and
the novel platform we've built
to bring these to market rapidly,
in order to help patients as
quickly as possible. This
platform is enabled by our
digital infrastructure, which
leverages workflow automation,
data capture, and AI to
accelerate processes and deliver
insight to our scientists. You
know and additionally Moderna
parallelised drug development
processes that are typically
staged sequentially. You know,
while we were, you know, really
early on still running
preclinical studies on our new
COVID vaccine, we were already
running GMP manufacturing so
that we wouldn't miss a day to
get to our clinical studies.
We're also already making
significant financial
investments at risk, to
build out commercial scale
manufacturing, to supply
hundreds of millions of doses to
the world.
This is really
fascinating. We used to culture
vaccines - now we can discover
and
print them in a matter of days.
This presents some
fundamental transformation from
a world with lots of guesswork,
with manual pipettes and
laboratory benching to a world
of simulations with
industrialised machines making
medicines. Where it takes months
or even years just to test
clinical-grade products, in
humans down to few days or
weeks. So Dave, can you tell
us how, how this is possible?
Well, at it's heart mRNA
is an information molecule.
Everyone is probably familiar
with DNA, you know, which is the
long-term storage of genetic
information. And encoded in your
DNA are instructions to produce
tens of thousands of proteins
that are responsible for
countless functions in your
body. And mRNA is the molecule
that carries those instructions
from your DNA to the ribosomes
in your cells, where those
instructions are read and
proteins are synthesised. By
creating our own synthetic mRNA,
we can encode information for
any protein we want from
critical enzymes that might be
malfunctioning in a rare
disease, to an antigen from
a virus to trigger an immune
response, which creates a
vaccine. And when Moderna was
founded, you know, we recognised
that if this mRNA technology
works for one application, it's
going to work for countless
more. All you need to do is
change the information encoded
to this new application. So
we purposely designed the
company with a platform
approach. We didn't design for
one disease, or even just
one therapeutic area. We built
with the intention of targeting
countless diseases. So this led
us to design our processes to be
really high throughput. And we
integrated digital technology
and AI algorithms to accelerate
those R&D cycles and give us
really unprecedented scale. So
Moderna built a data driven
organisation in AWS. Moderna is
enabled by AWS cloud
infrastructure, integrated
structures across teams,
internet of things, analytics
and artificial intelligence to
manage the automated processes
and ensure quality, across
research, testing, and the
manufacturing of clinical grade
products. Can you tell us more
about your drug discovery
process and the role of machine
learning in your drug
development pipeline? Yeah
absolutely, this is something
I'm very excited about. You
know, designing a new mRNA
medicine is not a trivial job.
The sequences can be
thousands of amino acids long
with an immense degeneracy of
nucleotide choices. On top of
that, there are numerous other
features of the mRNA formulation
that our scientists can choose
in order to target specific
tissues or cells. We wanted
to enable our scientists
to quickly, easily and
accurately order, large numbers
of these unique mRNA
constructs to enable really
rapid experimentation cycles. So
what we did is we built what we
called the Moderna Drug Design
Studio. It's a web-based
application hosted on AWS Fargate
that allows their scientists to
design novel mRNAs constructs,
use AI algorithms to optimise
them, and then order them from
our high throughput preclinical
scale production line. Behind the
scenes, the drug design studio
leverages numerous AI
algorithms. We have algorithms
that design mRNA and DNA
sequences, searching this massive
space of nucleotide choices, in
order to optimise them for
production. We have algorithms
that automate logistics
decisions, and we have
algorithms that automate quality
control data analysis steps,
which saves countless hours of
manual review, but it also
improves quality of those
analyses, because the
algorithms can often detect
things that are not apparent to
human eyes. And these algorithms
have been leveraged for
thousands of unique mRNA
constructs that our scientists
have designed, including our
COVID vaccine. And what's really
cool is all throughout this
production process, we capture
all the process data, and then
we use that to build new and
better algorithms to further
improve our processes and
algorithms. So this concept
here of, you know, capturing
structured data to drive
algorithm improvements, is really a
core principle of Moderna's
digital landscape. It goes beyond
this preclinical scale
manufacturer. So rather than try
to clean up data after the fact,
Moderna works hard to design
rich structured data from the
start. You know, many companies
have their data scientists spend
most of the time just
aggregating and cleaning data so
that they can feed it into model
training. And while this
cleaning process can be really
tedious and manual, it's also
immensely difficult to then
translate that very manual
process into a fully automated
pipeline,
kind of integrated in a
production setting. So by
designing integrated and
structured data capture from the
start, we allow our data
scientists to focus on model
development, but we also
streamline their ability to
deploy those into production.
We've also put in place
lots of tools in AWS for our
scientists to rapidly experiment
and develop new AI models. We
leverage AWS' specialty
instances classes like GPU's and
high memory to deploy the right
infrastructure, for the wide
variety of computational
techniques we use. We also
heavily leverage spot
instances and auto scaling to
spin up large clusters of nodes
to rapidly train models, or even
just to answer exploratory
questions without having to wait
as you might with a limited
on-prem cluster. Then we just
simply shut the nodes down when
we're done, only paying for the
time we used. So using spot with
auto-scaling has saved us at
least 90%, for the compute
costs compared to the
traditional approach
for these workflows. But
more importantly, it returns
the results of these analyses
in hours instead of days.
And finally, all of this
infrastructure is based on
Docker images, hosted in ECR.
When an exploratory model is
ready for production, it's
really a trivial process to
shift these into a production
setting, where they're integrated
with web-based applications,
like our drug design
studio via web services. And we
very purposely designed all this
infrastructure that
we think of as an AI
factory, in order to rapidly
deliver algorithms from concept
to production, to enable our
scientists to leverage the power
of AI in their daily jobs. We
have seen remarkable success
with you applying mRNA
to the COVID vaccine. What other
applications are you currently
exploring? Right, I mean this
is just the start.
While Moderna's COVID
vaccine gets a lot of focus
these days for good reason;
mRNA has far far greater
applicability, with the
realisation of mRNA platform and
infectious disease, you really
realise this is a core modality
and we're rapidly, rapidly
expanding our portfolio of
infectious disease targets,
including much more complex
viruses, like you mentioned.
CMV, you know, the vaccine we're
working on there requires
synthesis of six different
proteins in concert to
attack that virus. But
Moderna is also actively working
on other modalities in oncology
and rare disease, auto immune
disease, and so on. It's really
this flexible, programmable
nature of mRNA, combined
with Moderna's digital landscape
and our platform approach that
we believe could truly
revolutionise the way diseases
are treated. So Moderna stands
as the most progressive bio-tech
we've seen to date, born with a
philosophy to be digital and
cloud-first. They are no longer
alone in this mindset and
commitment. These days, the best
funded, most exciting platform
bio-techs recognise that their
success hinges on the marriage
of data science to biology and
chemistry, and then carrying
that philosophy through the
clinics and beyond. Automating
labs and streamlining workflows
are just the beginning. The most
exciting bio-techs are those like
Moderna turning science fiction
into reality. As a  cyberpunk
pioneer William Gibson wrote, "the
future is already here, it's just
not evenly distributed." The
exciting thing about our work at
AWS is putting our people and
capabilities at everyone's
disposal and helping accelerate
that diffusion of innovation. To
close, I'd like to spend a bit
of time sharing more about AWS
machine learning and how across
healthcare life sciences
ecosystem we are building
purpose-built services to meet
challenges faced by this
industry and accelerate adoption
machine learning, all built on
the most comprehensive cloud
platform. First from the largest
healthcare providers, payers,
and IT vendors to the smallest
ISVs, many healthcare
organisations choose AWS for
machine learning. AWS machine
learning provides the broadest
and deepest
set of machine learning services
in the cloud; from pre-trained AI
services for computer vision,
language, recommendations, and
forecasting; to Amazon SageMaker
to quickly build, train, and
deploy machine learning models
at scale; to custom models with
support for popular open-source
frameworks, such as TensorFlow
PyTorch, MXNet and others.
SageMaker is a managed service
that takes a
number of required steps to
build, train, tune, and deploy
a machine learning model and makes
it much easier for everyday
developers and scientists. It
helps organisations of all sizes
to
embrace machine learning at
scale. Second, we help accelerate
customer's adoption of machine
learning, with services built to
meet the challenges faced by
healthcare and life sciences
industry. And optimised for
delivery and exchange of medical
information. Today, you can
unlock the potential of health
data on AWS with purpose built
services enabled by machine
learning; such as Amazon HealthLake,
Amazon Transcribe
Medical or Amazon Comprehend
Medical among many other
services. And finally, you get
the confidence of building on
AWS, the most comprehensive
cloud to support your machine
learning workloads from data
store, security, analytics,
compute services, and more.
AWS today offers more than
500 features and services
focused on security and
compliance, including over 120
HIPAA-eligible services and
certifications for all
relevant global IT
industry standards. That's why
today, if you look, we remain
a leader in Gartner's 2021 Cloud
Developer AI Services Magic
Quadrant. We have helped
hundreds of thousands of
developers learn machine
learning through programs like
Training and Certification,
Machine Learning University,
Machine Learning Embark, Machine
Learning Solutions Lab, AWS
Healthcare Partners, and more.
With AWS, you have access to a
range of professional services
and training programs that let
you tap into our experience to
accelerate your machine learning
initiatives. You can train your
developers and data scientists;
build new machine learning
skills in your own organisation
using the same curriculum we use
here at Amazon - be it business
executives, data scientists, or
app developers - on-demand
training available at no
cost on Machine Learning
University. To learn more you
can visit us at
aws.com/training.