this is the FAA email categorization
proof-of-concept in this use case either
training requests or performance rewards
come in as email attachments the
attachments look like this they're a
couple different formats so this is the
training request form with the important
information being the name routing
symbol and position level and then the
performance awards which look like this
again the import information being the
name position title and now a pay plan
so the robot is going to come and
monitor this inbox and look for emails
containing these subject headings and
from there it's going to save all the
attachments and actually extract the
values and then categorize them let's go
ahead and run our bot opened up both the
directories so we can watch it actually
live here we'll see the robot is first
doing the performance awards that's
gonna actually utilize the dhobi here
and set up the document so it's able to
pull out the tag value then it's gonna
go through the training requests we saw
it blipped by but the performance awards
have been categorized already and here
we see the training requests being
categorized as well and so the file is
renamed with the category and the name
with the position title to create a
unique identifier