hey guys it's Greg how's it going today
in this video I want to cover how to
really nail your next data science
interview so number one you have to know
your SQL and database skills I know
people have said this before but
seriously it is very very unlikely that
you don't get asked some sort of SQL or
database like question make sure you
know how to pull data from one or two
tables merge them together so you can
get the results that you want preferably
both with a sub query and with a join
and if you can get to bigger and bigger
databases like multiple tables and just
get practicing moving data around
getting what you want you are going to
do much better in interviews right away
okay so number one definitely nail those
SQL skills now number two some people
may not recommend this one but I really
strongly do is anything that you can do
in SQL try to do that in Python and not
necessarily base python probably Panda's
or Pi spark or both so all of those
relational database skills you know I
would actually learn the SQL commands
specifically how to get those but then
also do that in pandas and Pi spark or
whatever python libraries or R if you
like are but I'm a python Fanboy given
by the Hat all that stuff that you can
do in SQL I would do that in python as
well as well as yes you guessed it lead
code style questions okay I know they're
annoying a lot of people don't like them
but it is reality that these questions
are still being asked you know
competitive programming hacker rank
whatever you want to call these types of
questions data structures and algorithm
stuff so make sure that you know your
data structures and algorithms hash Maps
dictionaries I know they're basically
the same thing hashmaps dictionaries
breadth first depth first search you
know strings all of that all that stuff
I'm not going to list it all right now
but I think you get the idea data
structures and algorithms types
questions are asked all the time in data
science interviews I know it's a little
bit counter-intuitive data science is
more mathy more analytics statistics
machine learning I'll get to machine
winning soon but these leak code style
questions are asked all the time
especially as some of the early round
stuff where even before you get to the
machine learning based questions they
just judge if you can program in general
especially the Fang level companies you
know I'm supposed to say Microsoft
technically they're not part of fang
they really should be Microsoft Netflix
even though Netflix's stock has gone way
down Facebook even though their stock
has also gone way down Google Amazon you
name it all of these really big
companies they 100 ask the very
difficult occasionally very difficult
lead code style questions and pretty
much every company will ask some sort of
beginner to intermediate question and
it's getting more and more difficult the
other the higher up companies that you
try to attack uh I would probably move
now if you think you've got that stuff
covered to the data science and
analytics questions so definitely for
data science you're going to be asked
machine learning type questions so like
what is the bias variance trade-off
underfitting and overfitting just
training models in general like cross
validation and other ways to train
models and evaluate models
maybe different loss functions and error
functions for for measuring the
performance of these models you know
anything about training models is
definitely fair game regarding these
specific models I know a lot of people
at least I get asked this question a lot
which is uh like Which models do you
have to know to pass these machine
learning interviews that is a that that
is a tricky question but most the time
it is true that you should know linear
regression and logistic regression
really really well definitely the
difference between regression and
classification logistic regression by
heart is for doing classification 99 of
the time and so you need to know the
difference between those actually how
linear regression and logistic
regression works is very very beneficial
and regarding the tree based algorithms
so the tree family which is you know
well trees in general we have like add a
boost
for getting name you know random Forest
gradient boost XG boost those types of
tree based models I would recommend
learning them it maybe isn't super
strictly necessary but if you can learn
them I think people would be very
appreciative of that and you know they
are very commonly used in companies
especially stuff like xgboost those
really complicated tree based models are
very common for sure deep learning
questions are very very common so how
neural networks work what they do what
they can be used for you know the basic
architectures like feed forward Nets as
well as the more complicated and
specific ones convolutional Nets
recurrent Nets and how they've gotten
you know they've changed over time to
address various issues all about how
these things learn what they can do in
particular how they work is really
really beneficial definitely
understanding the graphs for deep
pointing so there's some really basic
ones but you need to make sure that you
know them so like how the loss function
should go down if the loss function is
you know not going down it's going up
that's definitely an issue they may ask
you questions related to that and what's
going on in this graph what's going on
in this floss function how is it
training maybe why isn't it working what
can we do better that type of thing so
for that I would definitely recommend uh
you know both doing that in theory and
and practice although I'll say in a
moment how I'd actually prepare for
these things
so neural network type questions all
over the place as advanced as you can
possibly get to you know like object
detection algorithms like Transformers
really state-of-the-art stuff gendered
advert serial networks all not
necessarily fair game but would be very
very beneficial for you to answer these
questions if they come up you will be
the person that you know gets that extra
mile there was many times a couple years
ago where I was the person that kind of
went the extra mile in researching and
understanding these complicated things a
lot of other people and candidates they
had good credentials but they just
didn't understand this stuff as well as
I did and I think that really helped me
get some of the internships that I did
although I haven't really said the word
I've been referring here to supervised
learning algorithms so that do
regression or classification through you
know training data and they learn how to
function and how to spit out an answer
give it an input regarding the
unsupervised family so say clustering uh
dimensionality reduction recommender
systems stuff like that most of the time
you probably don't need to know it as
well although I would definitely know
the common clustering algorithms like DB
scan and k-means past that you know I
think that's probably good for most
circumstances but as far as you want to
go into that by all means regarding
recommender systems uh they're very
beneficial if you are going into a
company that has a recommender system
pretty much all of the big companies do
and so I would recommend learning the
basics at least of how those work and as
far as you can possibly get into
understanding the more complex ones they
will greatly appreciate and it's one of
the most common roles they hire for is
improving and changing their recommender
systems so that would be really helpful
as well in some circumstances for many
jobs it's really not necessary at all
but for some it's really really
beneficial okay moving away from machine
learning I would certainly know how
intervals and hypothesis testing work
also a b testing not really too much
difference there but those fundamental
concepts really really important of
course stuff like average and standard
deviation slash variance of populations
is kind of fundamental but make sure
that you can understand those pretty
well regarding the probability
distributions so Bernoulli you know
binomial exponential poisson all of that
family of stuff I would probably be
aware of their existence and understand
like the complete basics of what's going
on there but for the vast majority of
jobs you pretty much need to know the
one that I haven't said the normal
distribution make sure you know how that
one works and what it's you know what it
can do what it's talking about the
random variable math behind it and
honestly past that I wouldn't worry too
much for the majority of jobs confidence
intervals and hypothesis testing for
normal distributions and by extension
the TJ distribution is very very good
learning all of those mini distributions
not really to good use of your time but
it would be sort of helpful I guess
regarding the probability type questions
I wouldn't really worry too much about
them for now if you do find that that's
the limiting factor for you and that you
keep getting asked them and you keep
getting walled by them and they're
turning you down then sure I would maybe
learn about it then but for now I would
not really worry about it too much some
simple ideas that you know may be
beneficial in every now and then would
be Bayes rule simple probability
counting arguments like combinations and
permutations past some simple counting
and probability arguments I would not
put too much focus into it until you get
walled by it that many times the
majority of companies are probably not
going to be asking these types of
questions some of them will some of them
kind of claim they will and then it's
more so just a confidence interval or
hypothesis testing type question and
usually not so much into the actual
probability sometimes there is but most
the time it's not so those are really
the different types of questions that
you get asked we talked to the beginning
about databases and SQL so different
queries on how to grab data and
manipulate it right and then about how
to do that with python for extra
practice with python pandas and SQL as
well and that definitely lead code style
questions data structures and algorithms
make sure you know that stuff and then
into the more machine learning and data
science stuff definitely machine
learning models common ones like linear
regression logistic regression how to
train models get into deep learning if
you can and if that's the type of job
there is to be honest even if they
haven't mentioned deep learning I would
want it as much as you can and then
finally confidence intervals and
hypothesis testing and simple
probability arguments I believe this set
of stuff will get you a long way and
then maybe when you go to interview for
yourself self you'll figure out the
limiting factors of yourself and then
you can pick and choose what you want to
upgrade at that point if you want to
learn this stuff I very strongly
recommend the pathway that I have in the
description of this video take a look at
that and if you are a beginner you can
follow that all the way through and
learn pretty much everything there as
well as extra skills that have you know
a ton of value for improving your resume
and your skill set even if you might not
talk about them as commonly in
interviews for example ml Ops like
deploying models you might not talk
about your flask and Django skills maybe
you will maybe you won't but they're
very beneficial to have as well so I
would definitely recommend following
that pathway if you are not a beginner
then go ahead and not follow the pathway
but pick and choose the pieces of that
pathway that you want to further improve
your skill set in see what you're
missing maybe I talked about something
in this video that you think you're
missing and you'll probably find it
somewhere in that pathway in addition
for practicing these things I would
definitely recommend Fleet code as a
free platform for the programming
questions as well as the SQL questions
and for the machine learning style ones
we have Kegel for solving different
machine learning problems for the
confidence intervals and also
probability questions there isn't really
any good sites I would really really
strongly recommend but if you search
online probability questions confidence
interval and a hypothesis testing
questions you will get a ton of results
and you can practice them there finally
some general tips to really help in
whatever interview you're trying to do
I'm going to sound like a broken record
along with the rest of the world but it
is so true you have to be an excellent
communicator and I know that for many of
you that is going to be the factor that
is most difficult sometimes it's a
language barrier sometimes it's just a
confidence barrier and maybe both
intertwined whatever it is practice
speaking practice speaking in front of a
camera with a microphone and recording
yourself and reciting all the things
that you know so you're ready resume
like all of the projects that you've
worked on any of your experiences at
work or school or whatever it may be any
of the things that you may talk about or
may want to talk about in an interview
make sure you've practiced those things
and you can recite them in a way that
makes sense recite them properly convey
it with kindness and excitement and you
are a million times more likely to get
the to get the job than all of the other
people that have awesome technical
skills but just aren't able to convey it
in the way that you want to a final
reminder make sure that you've got your
SQL skills down you almost certainly
will be asked this type of question and
even if you don't that skill is
extremely important so practice that a
lot as a recap the things that you need
to know SQL and programming style
questions come up all the time machine
learning and model training like
questions confidence intervals and
hypothesis testing a little bit about
probability but maybe not too much and
that is really the main technical set of
skills that you're going to be asked
another freaking reminder SQL just learn
it really well it's gonna help a lot to
learn these things I would strongly
recommend the pathway that I have in the
video description and to practice those
things lead code hacker rank as well for
programming Kegel and online resources
you can search out are really awesome as
well okay guys I wish you the best of
luck in your data science interviews I
hope that helped I have everything in
the description of the video I also
included how I would apply to these data
science jobs as well if you haven't seen
that video I would check that out as
well have a great day and I'll see you
later I wish you the best of luck
seriously try as hard as you can and you
will get this I promise you see you guys