let's continue our look at some discrete
probability distributions with an
introduction to the multinomial
distribution the multinomial
distribution is a generalization of the
binomial distribution in the binomial
distribution there are only two possible
outcomes on any one individual trial and
we label those success and failure in
the multinomial distribution the number
of possible outcomes on any one given
trial is allowed to be greater than two
let's take a look at an example this is
approximately the distribution of blood
types in the United States and suppose
we wanted to know the answer to this
question in a random sample of 10
Americans what is the probability six
have blood type O two have type A one
has type B and one has type A B when any
one individual person is sampled they're
going to have one of these four blood
types according to these probabilities
and we're going to be able to answer
this question using the multinomial
distribution suppose we have n
independent trials and each trial
results in one of K mutually exclusive
outcomes and these K outcomes are
exhaustive so one of them is going to
occur on any single trial these K
outcomes occur with probabilities P 1
through P K and since these outcomes are
mutually exclusive and exhaustive then
they must sum to 1 we also need these
probabilities to stay constant from
trial to trial we're going to let the
random variable X sub I represent the
number of occurrences of outcome I and I
is going to take on the values 1 through
K representing those K possible outcomes
on any one individual trial so we are
going to have K random variables
representing a count for each of those
possible outcomes then the probability
the random variable X 1 takes on the
value little X 1 and all the way up
through the random variable X K taking
on the value little X K is
equal to what we have here over here on
this side we have p1 the probability of
outcome 1 on any one individual trial
raised to the number of times that
outcome 1 happens and all the way up to
here which is the probability of outcome
K occurring on any one individual trial
raised to the number of times we need
outcome K to occur and so what we have
here is the probability of any one
specific ordering of x1 occurrences of
outcome 1 and x2 occurrences of outcome
2 all the way up through XK occurrences
of outcome K and what we have over here
is the number of possible orderings that
give us X 1 occurrences of outcome 1 all
the way up through XK occurrences of
outcome K and so these multiplied
together give us the probability of this
happening
we really should list out the possible
values of X here the random variable x1
can take on the possible values 0 1 2
all the way up through N and the same is
true of x2 and all the way up through XK
so this is true for X sub I equals 0 1
all the way up through n but we know
that n things must happen in total so
the sum of all those individual
occurrences or I equaling 1 through K
must equal N and if we think about this
a little bit any one of these random
variables when viewed individually it
will have a binomial distribution and if
you remember our mean and variance for
the binomial distribution we can say
that the expectation of X sub I is going
to be equal to n times P sub I and the
variance of the random variable X sub I
is going to be equal to n times P sub I
times 1 minus P sub I and you might
remember that from it
of the mean and variance of the binomial
distribution let's return to our example
in a random sample of 10 Americans what
is the probability 6 have blood type O 2
have type A 1 has type B and 1 has type
a B well we've got a random sample here
so knowing one person's blood type is
going to tell us nothing about the next
person's blood type so that independence
assumption is pretty reasonable here on
any one individual trial we are going to
get one of these four blood types and
these probabilities are staying constant
from trial to trial so the multinomial
distribution is reasonable here and we
want to find out the probability that
the random variable x1 which is
representing the number of people in our
sample that have blood type o the
probability that takes on the value 6
and our random variable x2 representing
the number with type a that takes on the
value 2 and X 3 takes on the value 1 and
X 4 takes on the value 1 and this is
going to be equal to n factorial we've
got a sample of size 10 so 10 factorial
over X 1 factorial that's just the
number with typo and that's 6 factorial
times 2 factorial times 1 factorial
times 1 factorial and now it's time for
these probabilities the probability
blood type O happens on any one
individual person is 0.44 and we need
that to happen 6 times so we're going to
raise that to the sixth power and then
we're going to multiply that by the
probability of blood type a 0.42 squared
because we needed that to happen twice
and then we're multiplying that by zero
point one zero blood type B raised to
the first power we need that to happen
once and then multiplying that by 0.04
raised to the first power and if we
calculate that we would see that that is
zero point zero one two nine zero when
rounded to five decimal places
let's look at another example here an
urn contains eight red balls three
yellow balls and nine white balls six
balls are randomly selected with
replacement what is the probability to a
red one is yellow and three are white
well this with replacement is an
important notion here if we are putting
the ball back in and shaking it all up
and then randomly selecting again then
the individual trials are independent
and the probability of getting a red
ball or our yellow ball or a white ball
those probabilities are staying constant
through the different trials and so the
conditions for our multinomial
distribution are satisfied here and
we're interested here in the probability
that the random variable x1 jangan let
represent the number of red balls the
probability the random variable x1 takes
on the value 2 and X 2 the number of
yellow balls takes on the value 1 and X
3 the number of white balls takes on the
value 3 and this is going to be equal to
and factorial so 6 factorial over 2
factorial the number of red balls times
1 factorial the number of yellow balls
times 3 factorial the number of white
balls and now to the probabilities well
we have 8 red balls and there's 8 plus 3
plus 9 20 balls in total so the
probability of getting 1 red on any one
individual trial is going to be the
eighth red balls out of the twenty total
and we need that to happen twice
so we're going to square that and then
we're going to multiply that by the
probability of getting a yellow ball on
any one individual trial which is three
out of 20 raised to the first power
because we need that tap and once and
then times 9 out of 20 getting a white
ball on an individual trial cubed
because that's got to happen three times
and that works out to zero point one
three one to two to five decimal places
have the sampling been done without
replacement then the trials would no
longer be independent and the conditions
of the multinomial distribution would no
longer be satisfied
we would have to use something called
the multivariate hypergeometric
distribution to calculate the
probability in this case and what the
heck let's run through a quick example
of that here we've got the same problem
we just looked at except I've changed
with replacement to without replacement
and there's a fundamental difference
there when I say without replacement
what that means is if we pull out a red
ball we're putting it aside and it
doesn't go back in and then we randomly
select another ball so if we draw a red
ball out on the first trial say it's
going to be less likely to get a red
ball on the second trial so those trials
are no longer independent we've still
got our random variables X 1 X 2 and X 3
and we still want to know the
probability that our random variable X 1
the number of red balls takes on the
value 2 and X 2 the number of yellow
balls takes on the value 1 and X 3 the
white balls takes on the value 3 and
we're going to do this through the
multivariate hypergeometric distribution
on the bottom we're going to have the
number of possible samples and we are
drawing 6 balls from a total of 20 there
are 20 balls altogether and from those
20 we are choosing 6 so the bottom is
going to be the total number of possible
samples in the top we're going to have
the total number of samples that get us
what we want the total number of samples
that get to red and one yellow and three
white and for that we're going to say
well we need to pick from those eight
red balls we need to choose two so eight
choose to and from the three yellow
balls we need to pick one so times three
choose one and from the nine white balls
we need to pick three eight choose 2
times 3 choose 1 times 9 choose 3 all
divided by 22 6 this is the number of
ways of getting what we want over the
total number of possible samples of size
6 that can be chosen from 20 and this if
we work this out to 5 decimal places is
0.18 to 0 for a note that's a little bit
different from the probability we
calculated when it was with replacement