this video is brought to you by dev
Mountain a coding bootcamp that offers
in-person and online courses in a
variety of subjects including web
development iOS development user
experience design software Quality
Assurance and Salesforce development for
more information consult the link in the
description below any series of videos
we're going to be looking at a classic
problem that pumps up in machine
learning which is known as the iris
classification model problem so
basically what this is is it's a problem
where you're given a set of different
types of flowers specifically of a
species called iris flowers and you want
do you classify between certain
subspecies of that category of flowers
so we'll take a little bit more of a
look as to what this problem is more
specifically with a Wikipedia page that
describes it some pictures just to give
a bit more of a sense as to the problem
that we're actually solving and then
when we understand what the problem is
we're gonna take a look at how we can
actually make use of machine learning to
solve this problem and more specifically
we'll be taking a look at how we can
invoke some of the modules in Python
specifically SK learn which is something
that will go through and install in this
video so that way you can use some of
the built-in models to classify a given
flower as a species of iris so let's
actually dive in a little bit more with
respect to the problem and I should also
say that we will be just assuming that
you have Python installed in this video
that's the only thing I'm really going
to assume you don't need to have any
other modules installed you don't need
to necessarily have an understanding of
machine learning or anything like that
we're gonna step through this more or
less as just kind of a mini series of a
use case that might be useful to you if
you're just getting started in this if
you want to see an application of
machine learning or if you want to see
how you can apply let's say things in
Python to a specific machine learning
problem this is kind of like one of the
hello world applications that come about
in machine learning so it's a very
standard type of problem is something
that really does come up quite a bit in
this field so what is this problem that
we're trying to solve so there's a very
famous set of data which is called the
iris flower data set and I've just have
this Wikipedia page here which just
pulls this up and just talks a little
bit more about this data set and what
this is is it's a set of about 150
records or so so if I click on the show
then here this is the data set itself
and each of these entries
each of the injuries numbered from one
250 is a specific flower that was let's
say recorded so they took the flower and
they found that this particular flower
which had a sepal length sepal with a
petal length and a petal width of these
numbers here was classified as this
particular species iris this setosa and
this dataset contains three possible
types of iris flowers so there's an iris
setosa which is given by this image here
there's an iris versicolor which is this
one here and there's an iris virginica
so these are the three types of irises
that appear in this dataset and each one
of the samples each one of the flowers
that were collected from this dataset
have the species and also the relative
attributes or features was what we're
going to refer them as features of each
of these samples collected so one of the
things that we'd want to do one of the
things that this classification problem
is going to solve is that if we're given
a particular flower sample that has some
of these attributes here we want to
based on the data set that we already
have we want to determine what species
is the one that we're looking at so
without knowing these species but with
knowing the sepal length sepal width and
petal length and petal width based on
the previous instances of data that
we've collected are we able to put this
particular sample that we don't know the
species into one of the three iris
species that we do know could fall under
and that's the whole goal of this
particular small series of videos that
we're going to do we're going to read in
this data set we're going to analyze it
and then we're going to build sort of
make use of I should say a machine
learning model that's provided to us
from SK learn to help us classify a
sample that we don't know what species
species it is so this is the data set
it's pretty simple if you don't know
what a sepal is the sepal is kind of the
the stem leading up to the flower part
and then the petals are these portions
of the flower right here so that's I
think pretty well understood so these
are the four attributes sleepi length
sepal width the petal length and petal
width and so SK
learn this module in Python allows us to
also make use of some datasets that are
kind of classic datasets this being one
of them and what we're going to do is
we're going to import that as part of s
key and learn kind of see how that data
is presented to us and then I guess
we'll kind of wrap up the video there so
this is just a little bit more
information on the data set if you want
to explore this a bit more if you want
to know about the history this was a
data set this clock did kind of the
early 1900 s by some botanists I imagine
so
or a biologist it says so if you want to
read more about this I'll leave the link
in the description below but let's go
back to the code so I have right here a
Python file that I just have a bit more
information about what we're gonna do
kind of writing and then sort of the use
case so the use case is you know you're
a botanist or a biologist and you have
this these four criteria of data for a
given iris and you want to classify that
iris is one of the three categories of
iris from this data set so it's kind of
the gist of what we want to accomplish
in this in this video using SK and learn
so the first thing we're gonna do is I
mentioned before is we're going to use
SK learn which means that we need to
install it so what I'm going to do is
I'm going to go to my terminal I'm in
vim accessing the terminal using the
colon and exclamation point I'm going to
say pip install and I'm going to SK and
learn so if I do that this will run the
command and my terminal you'll notice
that all the requirements are already
satisfied because I'm getting these
messages here if you don't have it
installed you will see it install on
your machine and the way that you can
check out if you actually have it
properly installed is we can go ahead
and import something from SK learn so
what we'll do is we'll say from SK learn
about data sets imports load underscore
iris so this is going to load or allow
us to access the classic iris dataset
that we were just discussing so let's
just go ahead and let me just kind of
get rid of those characters there right
this I'm going to say Python this is
called part one not pi
run it so I'm getting let's see so I'm
getting an error here so I think
I spell that right I believe I did I
believe the reason that we have an issue
here is because it should be sq learn
datasets not data so let me try that
again give that a run so we've get just
to kind of clarify here let me just
clear the terminal clear run again just
to make sure that we get no error output
that's what you want to see so if you
have it properly installed you'll see a
message like that
you're good to go so now what we're
going to do is we're going to store the
iris data set into a variable in Python
so what I'm going to do is I'm going to
say Iris give a space here
iris is equal to load underscore iris
and then open parentheses close
parentheses since this is a function
provided to us from this sq learn data
set so now let's go ahead and take a
look at what this iris object contains
so one of the things I can do is access
this like a dictionary so if you're
familiar with how dictionaries operate
in Python this data is provided to us in
this type of data structure so for
instance I can do things like print iris
dot keys and so this is going to return
to me a list of keys that are part of
this data set so if I go ahead and let
me just clear the terminal and then run
this again if I do this print this out I
get a dictionary object in Python that
has the following keys so we have data
target target names des CR for
description feature names and then file
name so very briefly each of these
correspond to some component of the data
structure so I'm just going to comment
this out here I'm just going to go over
here we just kind of comment that out
and I'm actually going to just go ahead
and print out the entire dictionary to
screen and kind of explain what each of
those keys corresponds to in this
dictionary there's a lot of output that
just happen here but let's step through
it and see what we actually have so if I
scroll up to the top of this dictionary
that we just printed out you'll notice
that the first key here data the
corresponding value of that key is this
numpy array so numpy is another module
in Python that should come with s key
learn if it doesn't you can always do
pip install numpy and just if you need
any other libraries that should tell you
when you install ask you learn anyway so
the value of this key data corresponds
to all of the
of data from our data sets so for
instance these elements here correspond
to a given sample where this is the
sepal length sepal with petal length and
petal width so these are the features
these are the values that correspond to
a feature of a given sample likewise
this row down here this next row is
another sample of the iris data set
where again we have sepal length sepal
width petal length and pedal with and
again the reason that I know that those
values correspond to this is because
I've already taken a look at this data
set and if we scroll down a little bit I
can assess that this is this is the case
so there's about 150 records in here
just like we saw on Wikipedia so that is
the the value of the data key field
there the next key field that we saw in
our data structure was the target key
and the value corresponding to that is
another numpy array and this contains an
array of values either 0 1 or 2 so these
are numeric encoding zuv what species
the particular row corresponds to so for
instance if we go up to the first row
again the one that we were looking at at
the very beginning here this row right
here there is a species that this is
associated to and in the case of this
data set if we go down here to the first
corresponding first entry of this target
array this is telling us that that
corresponds to the species encoded by
zero and in this case the species
encoded by zero is Satou so and the
reason that I know that that is the case
is because of this other part of our
dictionary structure which is called
target underscore names so each of the
target names are the species so these
are the things that we're trying to
predict right these are our targets so
we have either its Atossa versicolor or
virginica those are the three target
species that we're trying to classify
for a given set of sample data and each
of these numbers 0 1 or 2 respectively
correspond to either 2 Tosa versicolor
or virginica and the other key that we
saw as part of your data structure was
this de SC R and that is just kind of a
description of the data set so this is
just kind of letting us know what is
this data set about you know what are
these things maybe some historical
information about the data set so it
kind of gives that information here so
this
all the value of the description of the
data set it also tells you if there's
any missing pieces of data in this as
well so for instance let's just print
them out a little bit a little bit more
let's just say cleanly so let's just
print out the key of IRS that
corresponds to the key de SC R so if we
go ahead and print this out let me just
clear the terminal because we have a lot
of extra output there run this if we
print out this thing to kind of format
it's a little bit nicer and it says that
we have you know the iris dataset kind
of gives some characteristics 150
elements of this data set for numeric
predictive attributes and the attribute
information and like we saw in Wikipedia
sepal length sleeping with petal length
and petal width and then also we have
the corresponding species that this
could be part of so again just kind of
gives a little bit more information
stuff that we already knew but there's a
lot of other data sets that esquina
learn and also provides to you this
might be something that you would want
to you know play with as well so there's
also some summary statistics for each of
these each of these elements as well it
tells you if any of these values contain
missing attribute values oftentimes in
non or let's say less than ideal
circumstances you'll encounter fields of
data data that's presented to you that
has missing elements so this is a very
nicely formatted data set where the
person who collected them made sure to
characterize and collect all of the
attributes for every sample collected
that is not the case in most scenarios
so this is kind of just letting you know
that there's no missing data there's no
instance of a sample where like the
panel length is missing and this is kind
of another field in and of itself where
you need to figure out a good way to
determine how to deal with missing
values in a data set so that's well
beyond the scope of this video but you
can look at things like imputation for a
little bit more context on that
so again just more information about
this data set a bit of historical
context things that you can find from
the Wikipedia page and also some
references as well so that's pretty much
all of that if I go back to what we had
before so let's just go ahead and say
prints out iris again just like we did
initially let's try that again
so if we go back print out the entire
dictionary we also let's I think that's
pretty much all that we've got the
description seems like the last thing oh
well that's not quite true we also have
feature names so the names of each of
the features that is the sepal length
the pencil with pedal length and pedal
with those are the particular names that
correspond to each one of the entries in
a given sample and those are the
features that we are going to be making
use of to predict the target namely the
species that a given sample corresponds
to so that's the Irish data set there's
a lot of other kind of given data sets
that sq learn provides to you there's
also lots of other let's say data set
repositories that exist out there on the
web and you can load them in not using
SK learn but just kind of general Python
reading writing to files loading them
into analyzing them and you know there's
a lot of really good data set
repositories like UCI and I'll leave a
link to that in the description below if
you want some other data sets to check
out I also recommend looking at what
other data sets sq learn that data sets
provides to you if you want to play
around with some other data that might
be more interesting to you and it's just
kind of a some other things that you can
you know leverage from this video and
sort of go forth and build upon so
anyway that's just a cursory glance at
the iris dataset in the next video what
we're going to do is we're going to
unpack that data set and actually make
some plots and graphs to kind of
understand what the data is telling us